# CS340Portfolio
### How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python method in the future?
* One thing to make sure programs are maintainable and readable is to make sure that the method names inside of libraries and classes are clearly named as well as any variables used inside of these methods, as well as making sure that the code is well commented.
* Another thing to make sure that programs can be adaptable would to use encapsulation. With using encapsulation, certain functionality is bundled within a specific method which allows those methods in the classes to be used in other areas of the code. With knowing what is going to be returned and what inputs are required, a user of that class doesn't need to know exactly how the method works, they just know what they need to input and what variable type of output to expect, that way a class could be used and imported into multiple different code bases
* The CRUD python library/class was written in a way where it could be imported into any code base and it would allow users to connect to and access the Animal Shelter data through the methods included in the library. So, anyone who wanted to use the animals data set could easily import that library into their code and have access to the CRUD methods that it supplies. This makes the code more versatile and adaptable. 

### How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
* As a computer scientist, one of the first things I will do is look at the requirements from the client. I like to read through what they are looking for so that I can really understand what their needs are to make sure that I design software that will meet their needs. 
* To write this software as Grazioso Salvare requested, it took planning rather than just diving in head first and writing code, and even after the code was written, it needed to be tested and then refactored so that it would better fit what the client was looking for
* For this project, when writing the CRUD library for the Animal Shelter, I would write each method and then incrementally test as I went, and refactor when needed, and a the project progressed, some of the methods required further refinement, so more refactoring was done throughout the project.

### What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
* As computer scientists, it is our job to listen to a client's needs and requirements for a piece of software and then translate that into coding requirements to suit their needs. Computer scientists help businesses function better and more efficiently by listening to their needs and then building them software so that functions and meets their requirements to allow them to get their work done. With the help of computer scientists, clients can get a custom piece of software built out according to the specifications and requirements that they would like.
